COMPUTER GRAPHICS forum

DOI: 10.1111/cgf.15204

Volume 0 (2024), number 0, e15204

Continuous Toolpath Optimization for Simultaneous Four-Axis
Subtractive Manufacturing
Zhenmin Zhang,1

Zihan Shi,1

Fanchao Zhong,1

Kun Zhang,1 Wenjing Zhang,1
and Haisen Zhao1

Jianwei Guo,2

Changhe Tu1

1 School of Computer Science and Technology, Shandong University, Qingdao, China
zhenminzhang.cn@gmail.com, szh211227@163.com, fanchaoz98@gmail.com, kun_zhang2004@foxmail.com, wenjingzhang4af@outlook.com, {chtu,
haisenzhao}@sdu.edu.cn
2 MAIS, Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China
jianwei.guo@nlpr.ia.ac.cn

Abstract
Simultaneous four-axis machining involves a cutter that moves in all degrees of freedom during carving. This strategy provides
higher-quality surface finishing compared to positional machining. However, it has not been well-studied in research. In this
study, we propose the first end-to-end computational framework to optimize the toolpath for fabricating complex models using
simultaneous four-axis subtractive manufacturing. In our technique, we first slice the input 3D model into uniformly distributed
2D layers. For each slicing layer, we perform an accessibility analysis for each intersected contour within this layer. Then, we proceed with over-segmentation and a bottom-up connecting process to generate a minimal number of fabricable segments. Finally,
we propose post-processing techniques to further optimize the tool directionand the transfer path between segments. Physical
experiments of nine models demonstrate our significant improvements in both fabrication quality and efficiency, compared to the
positional strategy and two simultaneous tool paths generated by industry-standard CAM systems.
Keywords: digital geometry processing, toolpath planning, four-axis machining
CCS Concepts: • Computing methodologies → Mesh geometry models

1. Introduction
CNC subtractive manufacturing (SM), a cornerstone of modern industry, has continually evolved to meet the growing demands for
precision and complexity in the fabrication of various components
and products [LXG10, SKM*22]. In this context, the utilization
of four-axis machining has emerged as a crucial and cost-effective
technique, bridging the gap between the accessibility of three-axis
CNC machines and the intricate capabilities of five-axis CNC machines. The significance of four-axis machining lies in its ability to
strike a delicate balance between shape complexity and machine accessibility. In contrast to three-axis machining, the additional axis in
four-axis CNC machines enables the creation of intricate and multifaceted designs, such as side drilling or surface cylinder drilling.
Moreover, it improves productivity by allowing multiple operations
to be performed in one setup. In contrast to five-axis machining,
the four-axis CNC machines are much more cost-effective while realizing complex geometries, resulting in much more accessibility

in the manufacturing field (According to Stratistics MRC [Gii23]
and a research report [Wic24], the global four-axis CNC Machining Center Market and the global five-axis CNC Machining Centers market were valued at $34,012.22 million and $4,119.9 million
in 2023, respectively.). As a result, four-axis machining has found
a wide range of applications, especially in aerospace, automotive
and medical industries, where the fusion of precision and artistry is
paramount [JLZ*21, ZRZ23]; see Figure 2.
A four-axis CNC machine has three degrees of translation
and one degree of rotation. This rotational capability enables the
machine to perform complex and versatile machining operations,
creating intricate and precise designs. See Figure 4 for the machine
setup. To perform SM using a four-axis CNC machine, we need to
determine tool direction and its movement on the fine-machining
surface of the target 3D shape. The movement of the cutter refers
to the machining sequence, which indicates the next machining
points after carving the current one. Four-axis machining presents

© 2024 Eurographics - The European Association for Computer Graphics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

1 of 15

Z. Zhang et al. / Continuous Toolpath Optimization for Simultaneous Four-Axis Subtractive Manufacturing

Figure 1: Our algorithmic pipeline in brief. This work introduces a general computational framework for simultaneous four-axis CNC machining, which aims to minimize the variation of tool direction while machining continuously as much as possible, and to ensure that the
fabrication process is always collision-free. This figure shows the Kitten model (a). We uniformly slice it along the rotation axis after determining its object orientation (b). Next, we apply tool path optimization to each layer to generate a simultaneous four-axis tool path. This aims
to maximize geometric continuity and minimize variations in the machining directions (c). (d) displays the physical fabrication outcome of
the Kitten model. It indicates that the proposed framework can be successfully used for simultaneous four-axis subtractive manufacturing.

Figure 2: Typical application products of four-axis machining.
Four-axis subtractive manufacturing is widely used in metal machining of solids of revolution (a), wooden crafts (b) and prototypes
with high-genus (c).
a critical decision point with two primary strategies: positional and
simultaneous machining strategies.
The positional strategy (also known as the positional 4th axis, or
3 + 1 machining) maintains a fixed tool direction during cutting
using three translation degrees. The remaining rotational degree involves moving the cutter between cutting material from different
directions. To apply this strategy, the external surface of the target
3D shape is first decomposed into height-field patches [NTM*21].
Each patch can be carved with a specific tool direction without any
collisions. Then a tool path planning process is applied to determine
the cutter movement to carve each patch.
The key benefit of the positional machining strategy lies in
its simplicity, which determines tool direction and movement
in two independent computational stages, as noted in Nuvoli
et al. [NTM*21]. However, it suffers from the presence of boundary artefacts between neighbouring patches, which arise from discontinuous tool paths carved from different directions. As shown
in Figure 3, the boundary artefacts require additional manual postprocessing work to achieve the desired surface finish. In contrast,
these concerns are anticipated to be addressed through the simultaneous machining strategy, which can greatly reduce the occurrence
of boundary artefacts.

Figure 3: Manufacturing demonstration of the positional machining strategy. The figure is from Nuvoli et al. [NTM*21], which fabricates the Kitten model by carving it from a set of height-field patches
and then applying manual post-processing work.
The simultaneous strategy (also called true 4th-axis machining)
involves a cutter moving in all four degrees of freedom simultaneously during carving. This indicates that both tool direction (rotational degree) and cutter movement (three translational degrees)
should be determined simultaneously during tool path planning. In
the simultaneous strategy, the cutting tool gradually changes its direction throughout the machining process. Consequently, the simultaneous strategy gains its primary advantage of superior machining
surface quality, without the need for post-processing of the boundary artefacts present in the positional strategy, which arise from
discontinuous tool paths and dramatically different tool directions.
Therefore, to guarantee high-quality fabrication and efficiency, the
simultaneous strategy should ensure two key properties of the generated tool path during its planning phase: directional and geometric
continuity. Geometric continuity refers to minimizing the number
of machining tool paths, as discontinuous paths invariably generate
numerous transition paths that can hinder overall machining efficiency. Directional continuity refers to the smooth and consistent
variation in tool direction, as frequent changes can result in defects
in surface finishing and reduced machining efficiency.

© 2024 Eurographics - The European Association for Computer Graphics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

14678659, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cgf.15204 by zhenmin zhang - Shandong University Library , Wiley Online Library on [10/10/2024]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

2 of 15

3 of 15

However, it is challenging to ensure the proposed directional and
geometric continuity during the collision-free tool path planning
for the simultaneous SM on four axes. We cannot simply replicate
the two independent computational stages of the positional strategy.
This is due to the coupling between tool directionand its movement
in the simultaneous strategy. Different tool directions can result in
different machining sequences, which can affect the optimization
of tool direction. Unfortunately, the simultaneous tool path planning problem for four-axis CNC machines remains an open research
area. To our knowledge, only a few solutions are available in industry CAM systems. However, these methods are capable of producing
objects with only simple geometries. For complex geometries featuring high-genus shapes or numerous branching structures, current
solutions fall short and often encounter issues such as overcuts or
undercuts, as detailed in related works.

2. Related Works

We aim to propose a novel end-to-end framework for producing
a collision-free tool path with directional and geometric continuity
for simultaneous four-axis machining. This proposed method can
be utilized to fabricate complex 3D shapes, including those characterized by high-genus shapes or numerous branching structures;
see Figure 1. We target the finishing (fine-machining) stage, which
is performed using ball-end mills or straight groove pointed tools,
where we assume that only the spherical and conical parts of the tool
have cutting capability. The specific tool shapes can be found in the
results section. Our approach addresses this tool path planning problem in two ways. First, we propose simplifying the problem by transforming the 3D tool path issue into a 2D planning problem. We accomplish this using a layer-based fabrication approach. By dividing
the target object into slices, we tackle tool path planning for a simultaneous machining strategy for each individual layer. This allows
us to break down the problem into an appropriate level of complexity for initiating research in simultaneous four-axis SM. We refer
to the boundary of each connected component in each slicing layer
as a contour. There may be one or more contours within a layer.
Second, we propose an over-segmentation and then a bottom-up
merging process to co-optimize the tool direction and its movement.
Specifically, we break down tool path planning for each layer into
three computational stages. In the over-segmentation stage, each
layer contour is uniformly decomposed into atomic segments, and
accessibility analysis is then applied to each segment. The bottomup merging aims to generate an as-continuous-as-possible machining tool path by merging these segments with a back-and-forth traverse procedure, a graph-cut-based overlapping resolving procedure
and a TSP connection procedure. The third stage involves a postprocessing optimization to further enhance the directional continuity and shorten the transition path.

In terms of simultaneous strategy, despite the existence of several commercial CAM systems in the industry, we cannot find any
research literature addressing the simultaneous tool path planning
problem for four-axis CNC machining.

In summary, our key contributions include the development of
the first general computational framework for simultaneous fouraxis SM, focusing on continuous tool path generation with minimized directional variation and a minimized number of transition
paths. Nine fabrication and three ablation experiments have been
conducted to confirm the effectiveness of our technology. Furthermore, three comparison experiments have been performed using the
industry-standard CAM systems of Snapmaker [Sna23] and Autodesk [Wor23], as well as the positional four-axis machining introduced by Nuvoli et al. [NTM*21] to demonstrate significant improvements in manufacturing quality and efficiency.

Tool path planning is a classical research topic in the CNC machining domain. It has been addressed by a broad range of approaches,
such as the parameterization method, which maps a curved surface
to the plane [RSG09], the drive surface-based method, which generates iso-planar tool paths by intersecting parallel planes [CJ12,
HBA13], and iso-scallop tool paths which pursue the uniform scallop distribution [CÜ10, LKLF21], particularly studied in the context
of five-axis CNC machining [MPE17, EE18, BBR*21]. Rather than
aiming to conduct a comprehensive survey of the entire tool path
planning field in CNC machining [YJJ*22], we focus specifically
on existing work on the tool path planning strategy for four-axis
CNC machining. This section initially examines previous work on
the positional machining strategy.

Furthermore, we review works aiming at directional and geometric continuity in different manufacturing domains.
2.1. Positional machining strategy
The most critical aspect of this strategy is to minimize the use of
positional directions to process the entire surface of the target 3D
shape. This issue has been well addressed by various methods. In
Ding and Jiang [DJ04], an interaction-based method is proposed
that involves users in assigning machining orientations for freeform surfaces in electric discharge machining applications. Muntoni
et al.[MLS*18] propose a method that decomposes a 3D object into
height fields, then projects the decomposition toward the interior,
covering the entire volume and ensuring that each piece is manufacturable with three-axis CNC machines. For CAD models, which are
constructed using precise geometric primitives such as lines, arcs,
circles and polygons, Joshi [Jos15] proposes a method to determine
orientations based on these primitives. In the case of non-complex
parts where all features can be machined from two directions, Zahid et al. [ZCW16] aim to find the best pair of two orientations that
avoid thin web structures and preserve cutter life. In Fanni et al.
[FCM*18], a polycube representation of the original shape is used
for surface decomposition in four-axis CNC machining.
Researchers also address the positional machining strategy in a
surface decomposition process. In this process, the external surface of the target 3D model is decomposed into a minimal number of height-field patches using multi-label graph-cut optimization [STC09]. Each decomposed height field patch is associated
with a single tool direction. This graph-cut-based surface decomposition method has proven its effectiveness for three-axis machining [HMA15], four-axis machining [NTM*21], five-axis machining [ZZX*18] and volume decomposition for moulding [AMG*19].
In our approach, we also utilize multi-label graph-cut optimization.
However, instead of aiming to reduce the number of tool directions,
we focus on minimizing the number of machining segments along
the contour of each layer. This approach helps to achieve the desired
geometric continuity necessary for the simultaneous SM of the fouraxis.

© 2024 Eurographics - The European Association for Computer Graphics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

14678659, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cgf.15204 by zhenmin zhang - Shandong University Library , Wiley Online Library on [10/10/2024]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Z. Zhang et al. / Continuous Toolpath Optimization for Simultaneous Four-Axis Subtractive Manufacturing

Z. Zhang et al. / Continuous Toolpath Optimization for Simultaneous Four-Axis Subtractive Manufacturing

Regardless of whether it is for the positional or simultaneous
machining strategy, accessibility analysis is crucial in order to
produce a fabrication plan that is free of collisions. For the positional machining strategy, Frank et al. [FWJ06] involve slicing the layers of the input 3D model for accessibility analysis.
They start by computing 2D visibility maps for the set of sliced
contours on each layer. They then determine the minimum number of tool directions based on these 2D visibility maps. However, it is important to note that their approach relies on other
CAM software to generate the positional machining tool paths for
each direction of the determined tool directions. In our case, we
can generate simultaneous machining tool paths using our own
algorithm.

Figure 4: The setup of our four-axis machine. The milling tool has 3
degrees of freedom (DOF), and the rotation axis provides the fourth.

2.2. Simultaneous machining strategy
To our knowledge, our research is the first to address the cooptimization of tool direction and movement for the four-axis simultaneous SM. Consequently, most of the relevant literature comes
from CAM systems used in the industry domain. However, due
to the abundance of CAM systems and the lack of technique reports for commercial purposes, it becomes impossible to explore
and fully understand all of them and their algorithms in detail. To
provide a brief understanding of the simultaneous four-axis strategy
in the industry, let us explore a selection of the options that we currently have access to, including the Luban software attached to our
Snapmaker four-axis CNC machine of Snapmaker [Sna23], the Fusion 360 software developed by Autodesk [Wor23] and the Siemens
NX [Sie16].
After examining the source code released by Snapmaker [Sna23],
we discovered that Luban addresses four-axis machining by utilizing the convex hull of sliced contours. It generates a 360-degree tool
path along the boundary of the convex hull for each slicing layer and
projects it onto the sliced contours. However, our experiments indicate that it can only handle simple geometric models, which consist of a single contour in each layer, and cannot process models
with multiple contours in each layer. Autodesk’s Fusion 360 offers
a ‘rotary’ finishing strategy [Wor23] for the simultaneous four-axis
machining. Users have the option to select from three rotating tool
paths: Spiral, Line or Circular. However, our experiments reveal that
Fusion 360 fails to produce a completely collision-free machining
path, resulting in numerous undercuts. Siemens NX offers a semiautomatic strategy for generating simultaneous tool paths for CAD
models [Sie16], which necessitates manual specification of drive geometry or guiding curves to generate tool paths at a feature-based
level, such as a circular pocket or a slot feature. In contrast, our
technique provides a fully automatic solution for generating simultaneous tool paths for the entire model. Therefore, it is unnecessary
to compare our technique to Siemens NX.

Figure 5: Demonstration of the fabrication process. After assembling the stock on the fixture, we mill the stock layer by layer along
the rotation axis using the four-axis machine.

algorithm to optimize the continuity of tool direction and the machining sequence.
First, for directional continuity, we adopt the graph-based representation utilized in our graph-cut step, akin to Plakhotnik and
Lauwers [PL14], which determines tool direction through graphbased optimization for five-axis machine tool movements. Second,
for geometric continuity, we employ the over-segmentation and
merging strategy similar to that employed in Zhao et al. [ZGH*16]
and Zhong et al. [ZXZL23]. In these works, a 2D domain (a surface
model) is initially decomposed into several sub-domains (smallscale one-path patches). Subsequently, a single Fermat spiral (a single one-path patch) is generated through a bottom-up merging process. In our case, we decompose short segments of each layer and
then connect them into a single tool path.

3. Overview
This section begins by explaining the configuration of our four-axis
CNC machine and provides an overview of our fabrication process.
Then it re-iterates the basic idea of our computational framework,
accompanied by a technique overview.

3.1. Setup and fabrication process
2.3. Continuous tool path planning
Continuity is an important and desirable characteristic for tool path
planning in various manufacturing domains. It has a significant impact on the efficiency of manufacturing and product quality. Previous studies have attempted to enhance directional continuity or
geometric continuity [MSJ*22], which serves as inspiration for our

In our experiments, we utilize the four-axis CNC machine: Snapmaker 2.0 A350T, manufactured by Snapmaker [Sna23]. It consists
of three linear axes of movement and an additional axis of rotation,
as shown in Figure 4. In the fabrication process, we first assemble
the stock on the four-axismachine through the fixture so that its axis
is aligned with the rotation axis. Then we mill the stock layer by
layer, as shown in Figure 5.

© 2024 Eurographics - The European Association for Computer Graphics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

14678659, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cgf.15204 by zhenmin zhang - Shandong University Library , Wiley Online Library on [10/10/2024]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

4 of 15

3.2. Technique overview
Recall that we aim to propose an algorithm that forms an end-toend framework for simultaneous four-axis machining. Our algorithm takes a 3D object M, represented by a triangular mesh, as
input, and generates a collision-free simultaneous tool path T P =
{T P1 , T P2 , . . . , T Pn } for four-axis machining. Here, T Pi represents
the tool path of the ith slicing layer. Each T Pi comprises a sequence of machining segments and transfer move paths, denoted as
i
i
, S2i , . . . , Tm−1,m
, Smi }, where Ski is a continuous maT Pi = {S1i , T1,2
i
is a transfer
chining tool path segment of the ith slicing layer, Tk−1,k
i
and Ski . To ensure directional and geometric
move path between Sk−1
continuity of T Pi , our framework is to reduce the sequence length
of T Pi and minimize the changes in tool direction within each T Pi .
Our algorithm achieves these objectives through three stages:
(1) In initialization, we first determine an object orientationof M
(Section 4.1), then slice it into n layers, L = {L1 , L2 , . . . , Ln },
and uniformly sample sub-segments along each slicing contour
Cij of layer Li . Then, we conduct an accessibility analysis for
each sub-segment (Section 4.2).
(2) In the over-segmentation-then-merging process, we first decompose each contour Cij into a set of machining segments with
a proposed back-and-forth traverse process. Then a graph-cut
method is used to resolve the overlapping between these segments, resulting in machining segments {S1 , S2 , . . . , Sn } (Section 4.3). Connect the result machining segments into a single tool path T Pi of layer Li , while considering minimizing the
length of transfer moves (Section 4.4). For each T Pi , apply a
post-processing to further optimize its connection points and
machining directions (Section 4.5).
(3) Connect tool paths {T P1 , T P2 , . . . , T Pn } of each layer into a
single tool path T P by determining one connecting point for
each T Pi . As each T Pi is a circuit, one connecting point is both
the starting and existing endpoint of T Pi . To simplify the computation, we select the connecting point of T Pi with the maximum Z coordinate. Finally, generate T P by inserting transfer
move paths with tool retracting between two connecting points
of adjacent layers.

4. Methodology
This section provides a more detailed description of each step of our
algorithm. For every layer, our algorithm aims to produce a tool path
with minimized variations of tool directions (directional continuity)
and a minimized number of transfer moves (geometric continuity),
which can be directly used in simultaneous four-axis CNC machining.
4.1. Object orientation
The object orientation refers to the alignment of the object relative to
the rotation axis of the four-axis machine. Before tool path planning,
we first determine the orientation of M using a method similar to
the one in Nuvoli et al. [NTM*21]. The only difference is that we do
not divide the top area of the model to avoid the seam line caused by
decomposition. Our main consideration is to avoid flat areas whose
normal direction is nearly parallel to the rotation axis, which are eas-

5 of 15

ily omitted by slicing. To determine the object orientation, we begin by generating a set of candidate orientations {d1 , . . . , dk }. This
is achieved by uniformly distributing points in a hemisphere using
a Fibonacci sphere algorithm [SJP06] (with k = 2000 in our implementation). The best orientation is selected from {d1 , . . . , dk }, which
yields the maximum criterion:






(1)
a j ∗ 1 − nj · di 
A(di ) =
f j ∈M

where a j is the area of the triangle face f j , nj is the surface normal
of f j and di is the candidate direction of rotation axis.
4.2. Accessibility analysis
Collision-free is a hard constraint for tool path planning. We tackle
this through a pre-computation process during the initialization
stage. Here, we pre-compute the machinable direction range for
each surface point of M. This process involves a slicing-andsampling approach followed by a collision-detection-based accessibility analysis process for each sampled surface point.
Slicing and sampling. We slice
M with flat planes vertical to the
rotation axis, resulting in n slicing layers, L = {L1 , L2 , . . . , Ln }.
Following Lee [Lee03], the dependency between the scallop
h and the slicing thickness t
between adjacent layers of the
path is empirically formulated as
h = t 2 /(8 ∗ R)

(2)

where R is the radius of the tip of the tool. To achieve sufficient machining accuracy, we set the slicing thickness to 0.2 mm and use
a tool with a radius of 0.15 mm, which allows us to obtain a scallop height of 0.033 mm; see Figure 13. On each layer Li , there will
be one or multiple slicing contours C = {C1i , C2i , . . . , Cmi }, where Cij
denotes the jth contour of the ith layer. Then we uniformly sample
atomic segments Ai, j = {ai,1 j , ai,2 j , . . . , ai,l j } along Cij , with a spacing
of 0.2 mm, where ai,k j is the kth atomic segment on the jth contour
of the ith layer. The inset figure shows the output of slicing and uniform sampling.
Collision detection. This step aims to compute the machinable
direction range, abbreviated MDR, for each atomic segment ai,k j .
This can be estimated by determining the MDR of the middle point
of ai,k j on the 2D slicing layer, thanks to the layer-based strategy
employed in our technique. The MDR of ai,k j is composed of 2D
machinable direction sectors, abbreviated as MDS. The directions
within these sectors are collision-free, allowing the CNC tool to
carve ai,k j without interference. The ai,k j ’s MDR can include multiple
MDS, {MDS1 , MDS2 , . . . , MDSn }, in which the tth MDS is defined
with a starting boundary angle As and an ending boundary angle Ae ,
indicated as MDSt = (As , Ae ).
We calculate MDR of ai,k j mainly based on a sampling-based
method. We first uniformly sample the candidate machining

© 2024 Eurographics - The European Association for Computer Graphics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

14678659, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cgf.15204 by zhenmin zhang - Shandong University Library , Wiley Online Library on [10/10/2024]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Z. Zhang et al. / Continuous Toolpath Optimization for Simultaneous Four-Axis Subtractive Manufacturing

Z. Zhang et al. / Continuous Toolpath Optimization for Simultaneous Four-Axis Subtractive Manufacturing

Figure 6: Demonstration of accessibility analysis. (a) Uniform
sampling of machining directions. (b) Collision detection for sampling direction, showing examples with and without collisions. (c)
Results of collision detection, and the produced MDR from the accessible machining directions. Red sectors donote MDS of each
i,1
has an almost
atomic segment. (d) MDR results of the layer Li . ak2
i,2
180º machinable range. ak3 is located in a concave area, with a
i,3
i,3
and ak5
have two divided MDS, due to the occlusmaller MDS. ak4
i
sion of contour C4 .

direction at 5◦ intervals, resulting in {d1 , . . . , dn }. Let ni,k j be a normalization vector to the surface normal of ai,k j . For each candidate
direction dl , we designate ai,k j as the cutter contact (CC) point.
Next, we position the cutter location point (CL), which in this
paper is the centre of the sphere for the ball-end mill or the straight
groove-pointed tool, at ai,k j + R ∗ ni,k j (R indicates the radius of the
sphere). We then align the cutter’s direction with dl . After that,
we detect the collision between the cutter and M by checking if
any of the sampled atomic segments on Li lie inside the cutter. If
none of the sampled atomic segments are inside the cutter, then no
collision occurs, and the dl is machinable. Finally, we group all the
machinable directions into the machinable sectors of ai,k j , assigning
the starting and ending boundary angle As and Ae for each MDSt ,
as shown in Figure 6(a)–(c). Figure 6(d) shows an example of the
accessibility analysis result. Note that while tool posture can be
uniquely determined by the machining direction for the two tools
above, custom-shaped tools like the ellipsoid need an additional
variable. Hence, the above method does not support these tools.

4.3. Path segments decomposition
This step aims to decompose each contour Cij of ith layer
into the minimum number of continuous machining tool paths,
{S1 , S2 , . . . , Sn }. We define such a continuous path as a path segment Sk , which can be machined continuously with minimal variation of tool directions. A path segment can be seen as a basic item
with the desired directional and geometric continuity. For the simultaneous SM of each layer, the fewer path segments a layer contains, the better its directional and geometric continuity. Our pri-

Figure 7: Path segment generate by back-and-forth traverse. Starting from atomic segment ak1 , (a) we first traverse its adjacent atomic
segment ak1+1 on contour C3i in a clockwise direction. With the traverse MDS overlapping, ak1+1 is included in the path segment. (b)
The clockwise traversal terminates at ak2+1 , with no MDS overlap
between ak2 and ak2+1 . (c, d) We then traverse the contour counterclockwise from ak1 , merging ak1−1 and terminate at ak1−2 . (e) Finally,
we generate a path segment that contains four atomic segments.

mary idea to the problem of path segments decomposition is the
over-segmentation-and-then-merging strategy.
With the technique described in Section 4.2, each contour
Cij has been ‘over-segmented’ into atomic segments Ai, j =
{ai,1 j , ai,2 j , . . . , ai,n j }. Each of these points can be considered an initial path segment. The next step is to further merge these initial path
segments. We attempt an iteratively greedy-based method, in which
each iteration produces one path segment from Cij . However, this approach often fails to achieve the minimum number of path segments.
As a result, a graph-cut based method is proposed. Before delving
into the two methods, it is important to first describe a back-andforth traverse process, which will be utilized in both methods.
Back-and-forth traverse. This process aims to generate the
longest path segment (Sk ) from Cij , starting from one of its atomic
segment ai,k j . When calling the back-and-forth traverseprocess, a
specific MDS(MDSt ) of ai,k j must be input, referred to as the traverse MDS of ai,k j , to generate Ski, j . Starting from ai,k j , we traverse
Cij both forward and backward. Initially, we traverse the backward
j
j
atomic segment ai,k−1
and the forward atomic segment ai,k+1
. During
this traversal, if one of the MDS of the encountered atomic segment
ai,encj overlaps with the traverse MDS of the current atomic segment
ai,curj , we include it in the path segment and designate that MDSas the
traverse MDS of ai,encj ; see Figure 7. If ai,encj is successfully included,
it indicates that the machining tool can continue machining between
ai,curj and ai,encj , using any tool direction within the overlapping sectors
of their traverse MDS.
Greedy-based path segments decomposition. This method uses
a heuristic-driven greedy strategy. The key heuristic rule is to call
back-and-forth traverseto generate as few path segments as possible
while determining a traverse MDS for each atomic segment. First,
we randomly select an atomic segment ai,k j from all the atomic segmentsof Cij and randomly determine its traverse MDS. Then, we
call back-and-forth traverseto generate the longest path segment
from ai,k j . Next, we repeat the previous operation to generate the
longest path segment from the remaining atomic segmentsof Cij .

© 2024 Eurographics - The European Association for Computer Graphics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

14678659, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cgf.15204 by zhenmin zhang - Shandong University Library , Wiley Online Library on [10/10/2024]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

6 of 15

7 of 15

of the traverse MDS of atomic segment ai in path segment l(ai ). We
define D as follows:

185 − Angle(l(ai )), i f ai in segment l
(4)
D(l(ai )) =
∞, otherwise

Figure 8: Two strategies for generating path segments. (a)
Greedy-based method. The contour is decomposed into three nonoverlapping path segments. (b) Graph-cut method: generate candidate path segments on the contour. Then, we use the graph-cut
algorithm to resolve the overlapping between path segments. (c) Finally, we get two path segments, which is fewer than with the greedy
method.
Here, the remaining atomic segmentrefers to those not yet included
in the already generated path segments. The iterations continue until the generated path segments include all the atomic segments,
thereby also determining the traverse MDS for each atomic segment, as shown in Figure 8(a). A complex scenario applying the
greedy method can be found in Figure 14.
Obviously, this method does not produce overlapping path segments. However, such a greedy-based method could easily overlook
the optimal solution. This is because an atomic segment can have
multiple MDS. Merging the atomic segmentinto a path segment
based on different MDS may yield a varying number of path segments.
Graph-cut-based path segments decomposition. This method initially generates a set of potential path segments to machine Cij . It
does this by running the back-and-forth traverse, starting from each
MDS of every atomic segment of Cij . Because a unique path segment can be obtained if the back-and-forth traverse starts from any
atomic segment within it and its traverse MDS, therefore, we do
not need to re-run the back-and-forth traverse if the MDS of one
atomic segment has been included in the produced path segment.
However, the resulting path segments may overlap (see Figure 8b),
causing multiple machining passes when we take them as the tool
path directly. Therefore, we need to resolve these overlaps while
minimizing the number of resulting path segments. To achieve this,
we apply a multi-label graph-cut algorithm [STC09].
We first associate a label to each path segment and then assign this
label to all points that the segment contains. With the overlaps between path segments, an atomic segment may have multiple labels.
We seek a label assignment l that minimizes the energy function:


D(l(ai )) + α
S(l(ai ), l(a j ))
(3)
E(l) =
ai ∈A

The above formula tends to choose a larger traverse MDS when assign ai into a segment. A larger MDS implies a safer machining
direction and provides a broader range of tool direction options,
which is conducive to finding a smoother direction in subsequent
post-processing in Section 4.5. The smooth term S measures the cost
of assigning path segments (labels) to two adjacent ai and a j . We define S as follows:

1, i f l(ai ) = l(a j )
(5)
S(l(ai ), l(a j )) =
0, otherwise
where l(ai ) and l(a j ) represent the path segments (labels) assigned
to li and l j , respectively.
Figure 8(c) shows two non-overlapping selected path segments
from the input path segments of Figure 8(b). Compared to the greedy
method shown in Figure 8(a), our method yields a smaller number
of path segments. A quantitative comparison is provided to compare the performance of both methods in handling more complex
scenarios, as shown in Figure 14.
4.4. Path segments connection
This step aims to connect all non-overlapping path segments on Li
into a single tool path T Pi by generating a machining sequence and
transfer move paths between adjacent path segments. We seek to
minimize the length of the transfer move paths to reduce machining time. This can be regarded as the classic Travelling Salesman
Problem (TSP), which is NP-hard [HPR*13]. First, we construct a
weighted complete graph G, where each node corresponds to the
endpoints of the path segments. If two nodes belong to the same
segment, we set the weight of the edge between them to 0. Otherwise, we set the weight to the length of the transfer move path. If the
tool can move along a straight line between two endpoints without
collision, the transfer move path can be the line segment connecting
them. If there is a collision, we generate a transfer move path using
additional paths, known as retract paths (see Figure 9b). Generating retract paths involves retracting the tool to a safe intermediate
point, known as the retract point, which requires retracting a certain distance, known as the retract distance. Suppose ek and ek+1 are
endpoints of two path segments, with the middle directions of their
traverse MDS being dk and dk+1 , respectively. To generate such a
retract path, first calculate the retract points wdk = ek + W ∗ dk and
wdk+1 = ek+1 + W ∗ dk+1 , where W is the retract distance (W = 35
mm in our implementation). Thus, the retract path between ek and
ek + 1 consists of three straight segments connecting the four points
ek , wdk , wdk+1 and ek+1 .

(ai ,a j )∈A

where D is the data term, S is the pairwise smooth term, A is the
atomic segments of a contour, α is a trade-off parameter between D
and S (α = 2000 in our implementation). The data term D estimates
the cost of assigning a path segment (label) l(ai ) to an atomic segment ai . We define Angle(l(ai )) to measure the angular magnitude

To balance algorithm performance and efficiency, we propose two
TSP solvers for G, depending on the number of nodes. Within 60
nodes, we run an exhaustive method, which starts from a randomly
selected node, then traverses G using the Depth-First-Search (DFS)
strategy. In the search tree, the path from the head node to the leaf
node is taken to the TSP path. For graphs with more than 60 nodes,

© 2024 Eurographics - The European Association for Computer Graphics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

14678659, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cgf.15204 by zhenmin zhang - Shandong University Library , Wiley Online Library on [10/10/2024]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Z. Zhang et al. / Continuous Toolpath Optimization for Simultaneous Four-Axis Subtractive Manufacturing

Z. Zhang et al. / Continuous Toolpath Optimization for Simultaneous Four-Axis Subtractive Manufacturing

Figure 9: Path segments connection. (a) Two path segments can be connected by a straight transfer move (blue line). (b) Collision happens
if two segments are connected by straight transfer moves (blue line). We avoid collisions by retracting the tool (red lines), which inevitably
prolongs the path. (c) The complete graph built by our method. Blue lines indicate that the machining tool can move from one endpoint to
another following a straight line. Red lines indicate that the connection needs a retract operation. Green lines connect nodes that are endpoints
of the same path segment. (d) The resulting path is calculated by the exhaustive method to solve the TSP.

Figure 10: Fine-tuning path segment endpoints. (a) is the result of
the TSP connection. (b) shows the overlapping path segment we calculated, from which we select the fine-tuning endpoints. (c) shows
the path segment endpoints after post-processing. Comparing (a)
and (c), the connection distance is obviously shorter.

we propose an iteratively greedy-based TSP solver. Starting from
a randomly selected path segment, each iteration seeks the nearest path segments to the two endpoints of the produced TSP path.
See Figure 9 for an example of the proposed path segments connection method. Additionally, we propose a heuristic rule to speed up
the TSP solvers. Essentially, when an untraversed path’s endpoint is
included in the search, the other endpoint’s node is set as the next
traverse node.

4.5. Post-processing optimization
Up to this point, we have obtained a single tool path T Pi for layer
i
i
, S2i , . . . , Tm−1,m
, Smi }. This subLi , represented as T Pi = {S1i , T1,2
section presents a post-processing approach to fine-tune the endpoints of path segments locally and determine the machining direction for each atomic segment of T Pi .
Fine-tuning path segment endpoints. This step aims to slightly
shorten the transfer move paths by adjusting the location of the endpoints of transfer move paths. These endpoints are indeed the endpoints of path segments. We apply the fine-tuning process to each
endpoint of the path segments, one-by-one, along the sequence of
T Pi . Each endpoint ei of path segment Si coincides with an endpoint e j belonging to its adjacent path segment S j , as shown in
Figure 10(a). We first generate two path segments Si and S j starting
from ei and e j and their traversal MDS, respectively. Then, identify

Figure 11: Smoothing of machining directions. The horizontal axis
of the line chart represents the index of the atomic segments, and
the vertical axis represents the angle of the machining directions.
(a) The initial machining direction of each atomic segment is randomly selected in their MDR, with a notable and abrupt change of
machining directions. (b) Results after the Laplacian smoothing for
the machining directions, where the machining direction of adjacent
atomic segmentsundergoes a smooth transition.

the overlapping path segment between Si and S j . Next, update ei
and e j to the atomic segment in the overlapping path segment that
is nearest to ei+1 and e j+1 ; see Figure 10(c). Here, ei+1 and e j+1 are
the other endpoints of the transfer move paths connecting to Si and
S j.
Smoothing of machining directions. For simultaneous four-axis
machining, we need to determine the machining direction for each
atomic segment of the final TSP path. We initialize the direction
by randomly selecting a direction within the traverse MDS of each
atomic segment (see Figure 11a). Then, we apply the Laplacian
smoothing method iteratively for all adjacent points [SCOL*04].
For each Laplacian iteration, we update the machining direction of
an atomic segmentby first taking the average direction of its preorder, post-order and the atomic segment itself, then setting the machining direction to updated one, as long as it belongs to the traverse
MDS of the atomic segment. The smoothing continues until the sum

© 2024 Eurographics - The European Association for Computer Graphics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

14678659, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cgf.15204 by zhenmin zhang - Shandong University Library , Wiley Online Library on [10/10/2024]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

8 of 15

9 of 15

Figure 12: Tool paths results gallery generated by our method. The models are arranged in the order of Buddha, David, Bunny, Eight, Chair,
Fertility, Hand and Coral. For each model, we first show the determined orientation of the model and the layer-by-layer slicing, where the
two or four layers are picked out and presented. Red lines represent the tool directions of the atomic segments, and blue lines represent the
transfer moves between path segments. Note that we apply a larger slicing thickness for visualization, and the intersection of tool directions
(red lines) does not imply collisions as the tool moves linearly.
of angle change in all directions is <1◦ (Figure 11b). Finally, we
sample atomic segments uniformly along all transfer move paths,
using the same spacing of 0.2 mm, as referenced in Section 4.2. The
machining direction of the new atomic segments is determined by a
linear interpolation between the machining directions of its two endpoints. The line chart in Figure 11(b) shows the machining direction
of each atomic segment, whose transition is significantly smoother
than before optimization in Figure 11(a).

5. Results
This section demonstrates the tool path planning and production of
3D models with varying degrees of topological complexity. We conduct a thorough evaluation of our algorithm’s efficiency, generality
and effectiveness. We also compare our method with existing approaches. Finally, we discuss the limitations of our method.

5.1. Implementation and parameters
Our algorithm was implemented in C++, using CGAL [FP09] and
Libhgp [Zha24] for geometric processing, Eigen [GJ*10] to solve
linear equations and gco-v3.0 [VD15] for graph cut optimization.

We run the programme on a PC equipped with an Intel Core i713700 CPU running at 2.1 GHz and 32GB of memory. In determining object orientation, we sample 2000 candidate orientations in the
Gaussian sphere. We set the slicing thickness to 0.2 mm and the sampling interval to 0.2 mm to uniformly re-sample atomic segments on
each contour. In collision detection, we sampled 72 machining directions uniformly, sampling every 5º. In path segment connection,
we set retract distance to 35 mm. Among these hyper-parameters,
the slicing thickness would be the most crucial as it directly determines the number of layers. A smaller thickness means more
layers, increasing the fabrication time, but improving the surface
quality.

5.2. Simultaneous four-axis toolpath
We assess our algorithm’s efficiency and path planning results
in this subsection. Figure 12 depicts path planning for 8 models,
each with two or four visualized tool paths. Figure 13 shows the
surface scallop height analysis results of three models simulated
machining in Siemens NX, based on the paths generated by our
algorithm. Table 1 provides statistical data, while Table 2 details the
algorithm running time for each step. We also conducted a physical

© 2024 Eurographics - The European Association for Computer Graphics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

14678659, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cgf.15204 by zhenmin zhang - Shandong University Library , Wiley Online Library on [10/10/2024]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Z. Zhang et al. / Continuous Toolpath Optimization for Simultaneous Four-Axis Subtractive Manufacturing

Z. Zhang et al. / Continuous Toolpath Optimization for Simultaneous Four-Axis Subtractive Manufacturing

experiment to validate the proposed path segment decomposition
method and post-processing optimization.

5.2.1. Evaluation of path planning

Figure 13: Surface scallop height analysis results. This
figure shows surface scallop height analysis results of three
models. They are Eight, Kitten and Hand. From the surface scallop
height analysis results, the surface scallop height is less than the
maximum scallop height of 0.033 mm.
Table 1: Statistics of the results. Rs is the surface-area-to-volume ratio. H
is the height (millimetres) of the model along the object orientation. The
number of slices is determined by dividing the model height by the layer
thickness. #S is the total number of atomic segments across all layers. #C
is the average number of contours per layer. #PC and #P are the average
number of input and output atomic segmentsto graph-cut, separately. E is
the average number of endpoints per layer to TSP. D is the average length of
final tool path after post-processing. A is the average transition of machining
direction of adjacent atomic segmentsafter post-processing. T is the total
fabrication time (minutes).
4.1

4.2

4.3

4.4

4.5

Model

Rs

H

#S

#C

#PC

#P

E

D

A

T

Kitten
Buddha
David
Bunny
Eight
Chair
Fertility
Hand
Coral

0.29
0.26
0.25
0.34
0.42
1.37
0.61
0.40
0.90

46
46
38
36
60
23
43
53
55

7.3E4
9.1E4
7.8E4
5.4E4
7.9E4
4.6E4
6.9E4
8.2E4
5.9E4

1.22
1.02
1.15
1.18
1.45
1.34
2.29
2.08
3.57

1.5
1.6
2.5
1.5
1.8
1.8
5.5
5.4
9.4

1.2 2.4 70.8 1.4 62.0
1.4 2.8 83.8 1.1 70.0
1.8 3.6 95.2 1.2 54.2
1.3 2.6 75.2 1.5 60.0
1.4 2.8 57.5 1.7 74.0
1.5 3.0 101.9 1.3 45.5
3.2 6.4 79.3 2.0 46.3
2.8 5.6 88.9 1.9 80.0
5.5 11.0 88.7 3.9 117.0

Table 2: Programme running time of each step (seconds). Ori is determining orientation of the model. Acc is accessibility analysis. Seg is path segments decomposition. T SP is path segments connection by solving a TSP.
Con is fine-tuning path segment endpoints. Smo is smoothing of machining
directions. Tot is the total time.
4.1

4.2

4.3

4.4

4.5

Model

Ori

Acc

Seg

T SP

Con

Smo

Tot

Kitten
Buddha
David
Bunny
Eight
Chair
Fertility
Hand
Coral

39.7
89.1
43.6
49.7
43.5
13.2
9.1
18.0
16.4

346
447
416
246
506
613
710
699
584

0.2
0.3
0.3
0.1
0.3
0.2
0.4
0.4
0.5

0.1
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.2
<0.1
0.2
0.2
0.4

2.9
<0.1
<0.1
0.6
7.4
5.1
4.6
11.2
9.6

1.0
2.3
2.1
0.9
1.0
0.6
1.1
1.3
1.4

389.9
538.9
462.1
297.5
558.4
632.1
725.4
730.1
612.3

As shown in Figure 12, our algorithm generates tool paths for
both single and complex multi-contours within a slicing layer. All
paths show excellent directional continuity and geometric continuity, where the tool directions are indicated by the smooth red lines,
and transfer move paths are also reduced, as shown by the blue lines.
Most contours have been decomposed into multiple path segments,
which are processed by the machining tool in an interleaved order.
This implies that the tool moves between different contours, and a
single contour can be visited multiple times, as in the fourth tool path
of the Coral model. In Table 1, it is evident that the average number
of produced path segments per layer increases alongside the average
number of contours (refer to #PC and #C for Coral and Hand). This
is likely due to the fact that an increase in the quantity of contours
reduces the machinable direction range for sampling points. As a
result, more path segments are needed to process each contour.

5.2.2. Algorithm efficiency
Our algorithm runs about 9 min on average for each model in our
experiments; see Table 2. The accessibility analysis is the most timeconsuming since we sample a large number of candidate directions
to detect the cutter accessibility to each sampling atomic segment.
Hence, the running time of accessibility analysis is determined by
both the number of sampling points (#S) and contours (#C) of all
layers, indicated in Table 1. Aside from object orientation determination and accessibility analysis, the remaining steps of our algorithm are quite fast.

5.2.3. Greedy versus graph-cut
To demonstrate the effectiveness of our path segments decomposition strategy (Section 4.3), we propose a comparison between the
greedy method and the graph-cut method using the Coral model.
As shown in Figure 14, the graph-cut method results in fewer path
segments at each slicing layer of the Coral model. Moreover, the
advantage of the graph-cut method is more noticeable when both
methods produce a large number of path segments. We record the
average number of path segments, the average length of the tool path
per layer, and the fabrication time for both methods. The three values for the greedy method (graph-cut method) are 6.4 (5.5), 149.2
mm (88.7 mm) and 129 min (117 min), respectively.

5.2.4. Post-processing optimization
To validate the two post-processing methods in Section 4.5, we compare surface quality and fabrication time without and with these
methods. We use the Eight model for this comparison; see Figure 15.
Figure 15(a) shows the fabrication result when the machining
directions are not smoothed by post-processing. These directions
are randomly selected within the traverse MDS of each atomic

© 2024 Eurographics - The European Association for Computer Graphics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

14678659, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cgf.15204 by zhenmin zhang - Shandong University Library , Wiley Online Library on [10/10/2024]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

10 of 15

11 of 15

Figure 16: Fabricated results with detailed close-ups. This
figure shows close-up photos of four fabrication results. They are
Eight, Coral, Buddha and Fertility.
Figure 14: Comparison experiment between graph-cut and greedy
method. Comparison between the graph-cut and greedy methods
using the Coral model. Graph-cut method (green curve) consistently produces fewer path segments than the greedy method (yellow
curve). Additionally, it is observed that the number of path segments
produced increases with the number of contours (grey curve). Three
layers are selected to demonstrate the path segment decomposition
results.

5.3. Physical evaluation
This sub-section initially introduces the setup of the fabrication experiment. Next, we evaluate the results in terms of efficiency and
surface quality. We then compare to two CAM systems: the Luban
system provided by Snapmaker and Fusion 360 by Autodesk, focusing on their simultaneous strategies. For a live demonstration of the
manufacturing process, please refer to our supplementary video.

5.3.1. Setup of fabrication experiment

Figure 15: Comparison experiments of post-processing. (a) Fabricated Eight model using the tool path without smoothing of machining directions. The abrupt tool direction transition causes a large
number of pits on the surface, which seriously reduce the surface
quality. (b) Fabricated results using the heuristic method that first
selects the normal direction of each atomic segment, or, if inaccessible, the closest direction within its traverse MDS. The heuristic
method makes some overcut artefacts. (c) Fabricated result using
the tool path without fine-tuning path segment endpoints. (d) Fabricated result using the tool path with two post-processing strategies. It demonstrates better surface quality. (e) The rendered view
of Eight.

segment. We can see a large number of defects on the model
surface. A heuristic method to determine the tool directions is
compared; see Figure 15(b). The heuristic method first selects the
normal direction of each atomic segment, or, if inaccessible, the
closest direction within its traverse MDS. Figure 15(d) shows the
fabrication result with post-processing smoothing of the machining
directions. The average angle variation per layer for (a), (b) and
(d) is 2741◦ , 636◦ and 451◦ , respectively. Since tuning the rotary
axis during the machining takes time, Figure 15(d) takes 74 min for
fabrication, which is much shorter than the 372 min of Figure 15(a)
and the 95 min of Figure 15(b). Figure 15(c) shows the fabrication
result of the Eight model without fine-tuning the endpoints of
transfer moves. The surface quality of the machining result is
slightly lower compared to what is shown in Figure 15(d), which
includes fine-tuning. For the average length of the tool path per
layer, (d) is 57.5 mm, which is slightly better than 57.7 mm of (c).

In our experiments, all the fabrication results are produced by the Snapmaker 2.0
A350T, which has a fabrication space of 350
× 320 × 330 mm and a spindle speed of
15,000 r/min. We use cylindrical machinable resin boards as machining stocks, with
a height of 70 mm and a radius of 17.5
mm. Except for Figure 19, which uses a
1.0-mm diameter ball-end mill, the default
milling tool is a two-edge straight groove
pointed tool. Specifically, the length of the
carving knife is 24 mm, the diameter of
the tip is 0.3 mm, the diameter of the shank is 3.175 mm and the
total length of the tool is 50 mm. To run our generated tool path on
Snapmaker, we export the path to a common ‘gcode’ file [LAYK21]
with the feed rate of 800 mm/min. In the fabrication setup, our tool
is longer than the machining stocks (24 mm for the carving tool vs.
17.5 mm for the stock’s radius), and the machinable resin boards
have low hardness. Consequently, we chose to perform finishing
machining directly, without rough machining. However, if the tool
were shorter or the material hardness were higher, a rough machining stage would be necessary. This issue could be addressed using
existing CAM systems, such as the positional rough machining tool
path in Fusion 360 [Wor23].

5.3.2. Evaluation of fabrication results
Figure 16 shows close-up, detailed views of the fabrication surfaces
of four models in Figure 17. These models were machined using our
simultaneous four-axis tool path, which often results in excellent
surface quality. For topologically simple models such as Buddha
and David, there are no visible boundary artefacts. However, for the
complex model such as Fertility and Coral, tiny boundary artefacts
appear on the surface due to the discontinuity of the machining

© 2024 Eurographics - The European Association for Computer Graphics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

14678659, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cgf.15204 by zhenmin zhang - Shandong University Library , Wiley Online Library on [10/10/2024]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Z. Zhang et al. / Continuous Toolpath Optimization for Simultaneous Four-Axis Subtractive Manufacturing

Z. Zhang et al. / Continuous Toolpath Optimization for Simultaneous Four-Axis Subtractive Manufacturing

Figure 17: Fabrication results gallery. The upper portion of the
figure displays a rendered view of the corresponding input 3D models. The lower portion showcases a collective image of the fabrication results.
direction at the intersections of path segments (see the inset in the
figure of Coral).
The surface areas where the normal direction is nearly parallel to the rotation axis will be omitted by slicing, resulting in
un-machinable sections. Although we have mitigated this issue
by optimizing object orientation, these areas still persist unavoidably (see the head of Buddha). In particular, some sampling points
have void MDR, i.e. are un-machinable points (see the inset in the
figure of Fertility). Our algorithm simply skips these points to ensure that the model is overall successfully manufactured. When it
comes to fabrication time, the length of the final tool path per layer
and the height of the model are the determining factors, as shown
in Table 1. In our experiment, the average time taken to fabricate all
the models is 68 min.
5.3.3. Comparison with CAM systems
As noted previously, the simultaneous strategy for four-axis CNC
machines remains an open research area, with only a few solutions
available in industrial CAM systems. Here, we compare the Luban
software provided by Snapmaker [Sna23] and Fusion 360 [Wor23],
using the same parameters as in Section 5.1. We use the Hand model
for this comparison (see Figure 18). Figure 18(a) shows the fabrication result using Luban software. The red circles highlight overcut
and undercut artefacts, indicating that for multiple contours in one
layer, Luban software may not accurately calculate the machinable
direction for each surface point. Figure 18(b) shows the result from
Fusion 360, which also clearly exhibits an undercut artefact. Moreover, we observe that the tool path from Fusion 360 includes numerous instances of idle rotational movements during machining, leading to significantly prolonged machining times. Our result shown
in Figure 18(c) is significantly more efficient than both Luban and
Fusion 360, taking 80 min compared to their 115 and 320 min, respectively.

Figure 18: Fabrication results comparison with CAM systems. (a)
Fabrication result of the Hand model using the tool paths generated
by the Luban CAM software, which takes 115 min for manufacturing. The results exhibit both undercut and over-cut (red circles). The
little finger is much thinner than it should be, due to being raised by
the overcut. (b) Fabrication result of the Fusion 360 CAM software,
which takes 320 min for manufacturing. The results show a lot of
undercut, where the palm part is much thicker than it should be. (c)
Fabrication result of our method, which takes 80 min for manufacturing. (d) The rendered view of Hand.

Figure 19: Comparison experiment with positional strategy. (a) is
the fabrication result of Nuvoli et al. [NTM*21]. It was machined
from three different directions, each producing a height-field patch.
(b) is the manufacturing result of our method, as depicted from three
different views.
ison as consistent as possible, both fabrication results use the same
parameters as in Section 5.1, and we apply a Zigzag pattern to generate the fine machining tool path for the positional strategy. For both
fabrication results, rough machining utilizes a ball-end mill with a
diameter of 3.175 mm, while finish machining employs a ball-end
mill with a diameter of 1.0 mm. Figure 19(a) shows the fabrication results from Nuvoli et al. [NTM*21], which exhibit many undercut parts and require additional manual intervention to remove.
Moreover, its surface quality is inferior to that of our method shown
in Figure 19(b), which is characterized by a less pronounced staircase effect. Note that Nuvoli et al. [NTM*21] treat the top as an
independent machining patch, which requires separate machining
beyond the capabilities of four-axis CNC machining. Therefore, we
can only report the machining time for its side surfaces: 41 min
for Figure 19(a) and 62 min for Figure 19(b). Taking into account
the top patch machining and the manual removal of undercuts, our
method would be comparable to that of Nuvoli et al. [NTM*21].

5.3.4. Comparison with positional strategy
We compare our method to the positional four-axis machining introduced by Nuvoli et al. [NTM*21]. We use the Kitten model for this
comparison (see Figure 19). To keep a single variable in the compar-

5.4. Limitation and discussion
Our pipeline enables the manufacturing of complex 3D free-form
shapes from a single solid stock using the simultaneous machining

© 2024 Eurographics - The European Association for Computer Graphics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

14678659, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cgf.15204 by zhenmin zhang - Shandong University Library , Wiley Online Library on [10/10/2024]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

12 of 15

13 of 15

tool path within each slicing layer, it does not guarantee global optimality. Our algorithm decomposes each sliced contour into minimal fabricable segments using a multi-label graph-cut optimization method [STC09], but it does not guarantee global optimality.
However, the graph-cut optimizer consistently produces reasonable
solutions in our experiments. Additionally, our approach only considers ball-end mills and straight groove pointed tools, without accounting for other types of tools such as toroidal cutters; although
our tools have a conical part, four-axis CNC machines lack the degrees of freedom needed to position a conical tool effectively for
flank milling.
Figure 20: Tool path results of Ruyi model. Left: Three Ruyi models in different heights, where the red areas indicate the non-visible
areas. Right: Four layers are selected to show the tool paths generated by our method.

strategy of four-axis CNC machines. To our knowledge, we are the
first to propose an end-to-end pipeline that fully explores the potential of the simultaneous machining strategy for four-axis CNC
machines. The key limitations of our current technique are threefold: the intrinsic constraints imposed by four-axis CNC machines,
the limited search space imposed by layered SM and the lack of
guarantee for global optimality.
5.4.1. Intrinsic fabrication limitation
The first limitation, related to intrinsic constraints, was well introduced in Nuvoli et al. [NTM*21]. As clarified in our introduction, four-axis CNC machining is a cost-effective fabrication technique that bridges the gap between three-axis CNC machines and
the advanced capabilities of five-axis CNC machines. This technique cannot fabricate arbitrary complex shapes. According to Nuvoli et al. [NTM*21], there is no formal definition of shapes that can
be manufactured in a single block using four-axis CNC machines.
This paper also does not address this problem, as it falls outside the
scope of our research. Therefore, our current method cannot handle
non-visible features of target shapes, such as the Ruyi model with a
height of 10 cm shown in Figure 20, where the red areas cannot be
reached by our default fabrication settings. However, as the model’s
size increases, the non-visible areas will decrease until there are no
non-visible areas at a height of 100 cm. Our algorithm can effectively handle this and generate a simultaneous four-axis machining
tool path, as shown in Figure 20.
5.4.2. Limited search space
Our technique simplifies the problem of simultaneous machining
by reducing the 3D tool path issue to a 2D planning problem.
We achieve this with a layer-based fabrication approach, which
effectively simplifies the problem. However, layer-based milling
limits the possibility of achieving an optimal solution for tool
path planning in simultaneous machining strategies. A more effective tool path planning approach may involve combining regiondecomposition with layer-based milling methods to produce a tool
path that is as continuous as possible across the entire surface. Additionally, while the current solution is effective in optimizing the

6. Conclusion and Future Work
In this paper, we propose the first end-to-end computational framework for four-axis simultaneous machining strategies to fabricate
complex shapes featuring high-genus or numerous branch structures. Our framework includes a tool path generation process that
optimizes the continuity of tool direction and the machining sequence. The main advantage of our simultaneous machining strategy is its ability to significantly reduce seam artefacts, which are
difficult to avoid when using positional machining strategies.
As discussed in the results section, the main efficiency bottleneck in our algorithm is accessibility analysis. We plan to accelerate
this step using CUDA parallelization, adaptive spatial partitions of
the bounding volume hierarchy (BVH) [LAM06] or the FFT-based
collision metric [CRCM23]. There are several areas for future research. First, exploring the effectiveness of adaptive thickness slicing methods [XGD*18], curved slicing layers [ZFH*22] and spirallike slicing layers [ZXZL23] in additive manufacturing could enhance the efficiency and surface quality of the simultaneous machining strategy for four-axis CNC machines. Second, investigating a method that integrates fabricable segment decomposition and
TSP linking stages into a single graph-cut-based process would be
valuable. Third, exploring a hybrid machining strategy that leverages the advantages of both positional and simultaneous machining strategies is a promising research direction. Fourth, considering
additional physical factors, such as machining stability during SM,
would be beneficial. Fifth, a more in-depth study of the object orientation optimization problem is needed. Lastly, applying our method
to existing CAM systems for four-axis CNC machines is another
avenue for future work.
It is crucial to ensure manufacturability when evaluating the fabrication capacity of a four-axis CNC machine. This leads to two research directions. First, there is a need to explore topology optimization techniques that take into account specific constraints related to
manufacturability during the modelling process. Second, addressing the problem of transforming un-fabricable shapes into fabricable ones for four-axis CNC machines, while minimizing shape variations, presents an intriguing challenge.

Acknowledgements
We thank all reviewers for their valuable comments and constructive suggestions. Thanks for the models provided by Thingiverse
and GrabCAD. This work is supported in part by grants from

© 2024 Eurographics - The European Association for Computer Graphics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

14678659, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cgf.15204 by zhenmin zhang - Shandong University Library , Wiley Online Library on [10/10/2024]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Z. Zhang et al. / Continuous Toolpath Optimization for Simultaneous Four-Axis Subtractive Manufacturing

Z. Zhang et al. / Continuous Toolpath Optimization for Simultaneous Four-Axis Subtractive Manufacturing

the National Key R&D Programme of China (2022YFB3303200),
the National Natural Science Foundation of China (U23A20312)
and the Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation
(2023B1515120026). The authors thank Zhihao Zhang and Qibing
Wu for their practical help with proofreading.

References

[HBA13] Hildebrand K., Bickel B., Alexa M.: Orthogonal slicing for additive manufacturing. Computers & Graphics 37, 6
(2013), 669–675.
[HMA15] Herholz P., Matusik W., Alexa M.: Approximating
free-form geometry with height fields for manufacturing. Computer Graphics Forum 34 (2015), 239–251.

[AMG*19] Alderighi T., Malomo L., Giorgi D., Bickel B.,
Cignoni P., Pietroni N.: Volume-aware design of composite
molds. ACM Transactions on Graphics 38 (2019), 1–12.

[HPR*13] Hoffman K. L., Padberg M., Rinaldi G.: Traveling
salesman problem. In Encyclopedia of Operations Research and
Management Science. Springer, Boston, MA (2013), vol. 1, pp.
1573–1578.

[BBR*21] Barton M., Bizzarri M., Rist F., Sliusarenko O.,
Pottmann H.: Geometry and tool motion planning for curvature
adapted CNC machining. ACM Transactions on Graphics 40, 4
(2021), 1–16.

[JLZ*21] Ji S., Lei L., Zhao J., Lu X., Gao H.: An adaptive realtime nurbs curve interpolation for 4-axis polishing machine tool.
Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing 67 (2021),
102025.

[CJ12] Choi B. K., Jerard R. B.: Sculptured Surface Machining:
Theory and Applications. Springer Science & Business Media,
2012. Kluw Academic Publishers, 1998.

[Jos15] Joshi A.: Computer aided process planning for multi-axis
CNC machining using feature free polygonal cad models. Digital
Repository, 2015.

[CRCM23] Cui Q., Rong V., Chen D., Matusik W.: Dense,
interlocking-free and scalable spectral packing of generic 3D objects. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) 42, 4 (2023), 1–14.

[LAM06] Larsson T., Akenine-Möller T.: A dynamic bounding
volume hierarchy for generalized collision detection. Computers
& Graphics 30, 3 (2006), 450–459.

[CÜ10] Can A., Ünüvar A.: A novel iso-scallop tool-path generation for efficient five-axis machining of free-form surfaces. The
International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology 51
(2010), 1083–1098.

[LAYK21] Latif K., Adam A., Yusof Y., Kadir A. Z. A.: A review
of G code, STEP, STEP-NC, and open architecture control technologies based embedded CNC systems. The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology 114 (2021), 2549–
2566.

[DJ04] Ding S., Jiang R.: Tool path generation for 4-axis contour
EDM rough machining. International Journal of Machine Tools
and Manufacture 44, 14 (2004), 1493–1502.
[EE18] Ezair B., Elber G.: Automatic generation of globally assured collision free orientations for 5-axis ball-end tool-paths.
Computer-Aided Design 102 (2018), 171–181.
[FCM*18] Fanni F. A., Cherchi G., Muntoni A., Tola A.,
Scateni R.: Fabrication oriented shape decomposition using
polycube mapping. Computers & Graphics 77 (2018), 183–193.
[FP09] Fabri A., Pion S.: CGAL: The computational geometry algorithms library. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM SIGSPATIAL
International Conference on Advances in Geographic Information Systems (2009), pp. 538–539.
[FWJ06] Frank M. C., Wysk R. A., Joshi S. B.: Determining setup
orientations from the visibility of slice geometry for rapid computer numerically controlled machining. Journal of Manufacturing Science and Engineering, Transactions of the ASME, 128, 1
228–238.

[Lee03] Lee E.: Contour offset approach to spiral toolpath generation with constant scallop height. Computer-Aided Design 35, 6
(2003), 511–518.
[LKLF21] Liang F., Kang C., Lu Z., Fang F.: Iso-scallop tool
path planning for triangular mesh surfaces in multi-axis machining. Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing 72
(2021), 102206.
[LXG10] Lasemi A., Xue D., Gu P.: Recent development in
CNC machining of freeform surfaces: A state-of-the-art review.
Computer-Aided Design 42, 7 (2010), 641–654.
[MLS*18] Muntoni A., Livesu M., Scateni R., Sheffer A.,
Panozzo D.: Axis-aligned height-field block decomposition of
3D shapes. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) 37, 5 (2018),
1–15.
[MPE17] Machchhar J., Plakhotnik D., Elber G.: Precise
algebraic-based swept volumes for arbitrary free-form shaped
tools towards multi-axis CNC machining verification. ComputerAided Design 90 (2017), 48–58.

[Gii23] Giiresearch: 4-axis CNC machining center market forecasts
to 2030. https://www.giiresearch.com/report/smrc1371881axis-cnc-machining-center-market-forecasts-global.html
(2023). Accessed 29 July 2024.

[MSJ*22] Ma H.-y., Shen L.-y., Jiang X., Zou Q., Yuan C.-m.:
A survey of path planning and feedrate interpolation in computer
numerical control. Journal of Graphics 43, 6 (2022), 967–986.

[GJ*10] Guennebaud G., Jacob B.: Eigen v3. http://eigen.
tuxfamily.org (2010). Accessed 29 June 2023.

[NTM*21] Nuvoli S., Tola A., Muntoni A., Pietroni N.,
Gobbetti E., Scateni R.: Automatic surface segmentation for

© 2024 Eurographics - The European Association for Computer Graphics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

14678659, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cgf.15204 by zhenmin zhang - Shandong University Library , Wiley Online Library on [10/10/2024]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

14 of 15

seamless fabrication using 4-axis milling machines. Computer
Graphics Forum 40 (2021), 191–203.
[PL14] Plakhotnik D., Lauwers B.: Graph-based optimization
of five-axis machine tool movements by varying tool orientation.
The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology 74 (2014), 307–318.
[RSG09] Ren F., Sun Y., Guo D.: Combined reparameterizationbased spiral toolpath generation for five-axis sculptured surface
machining. The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology 40 (2009), 760–768.
[SCOL*04] Sorkine O., Cohen-Or D., Lipman Y., Alexa M.,
Rössl C., Seidel H.-P.: Laplacian surface editing. In Proceedings of the 2004 Eurographics/ACM SIGGRAPH Symposium on
Geometry Processing (2004), pp. 175–184.
[Sie16] Siemens: NX software. https://plm.sw.siemens.com/en-US/
nx/ (2016). Accessed 1 May 2023.
[SJP06] Swinbank R., James Purser R.: Fibonacci grids: A
novel approach to global modelling. Quarterly Journal of the
Royal Meteorological Society: A Journal of the Atmospheric Sciences, Applied Meteorology and Physical Oceanography 132,
619 (2006), 1769–1793.
[SKM*22] Sathish K., Kumar S. S., Magal R. T., Selvaraj
V., Narasimharaj V., Karthikeyan R., Sabarinathan G., Tiwari M., Kassa A. E.: A comparative study on subtractive manufacturing and additive manufacturing. Advances in Materials Science and Engineering 2022.1 (2022), 6892641 2.
[Sna23] Snapmaker:
Luban
v4.9.1.
https://snapmaker.cn/
snapmaker-luban (2023). Accessed 1 July 2023.
[STC09] Schmidt F. R., Toppe E., Cremers D.: Efficient planar
graph cuts with applications in computer vision. In 2009 IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (2009),
pp. 351–356. https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR.2009.5206863.
[VD15] Veksler O., Delong A.: gco-v3.0. https://github.com/
nsubtil/gco-v3.0 (2015). Accessed 1 September 2022.
[Wic24] Wicz: 5-axis CNC machining centers market size and
share analysis 2024. https://www.wicz.com/story/50969181/5axis-cnc-machining-centers-market-size-and-share-analysis2024-business-growth-emerging-trends-and-regional-forecastto-2032 (2024). Accessed 29 July 2024.

15 of 15

[XGD*18] Xu J., Gu X., Ding D., Pan Z., Chen K.: A review
of slicing methods for directed energy deposition based additive
manufacturing. Rapid Prototyping Journal 24, 6 (2018), 1012–
1025.
[YJJ*22] Yuwen S., Jinjie J., Jinting X., Mansen
C., Jinbo N.: Path, feedrate and trajectory planning
for free-form surface machining: A state-of-the-art review. Chinese Journal of Aeronautics 35, 8 (2022),
12–29.
[ZCW16] Zahid M. O., Case K., Watts D.: Cutting orientations
for non-complex parts in 4th axis machining. In IOP Conference
Series: Materials Science and Engineering (2016), vol. 114, IOP
Publishing, pp. 012013.
[ZFH*22] Zhang T., Fang G., Huang Y., Dutta N., Lefebvre
S., Kilic Z. M., Wang C. C.: S3-Slicer: A general slicing framework for multi-axis 3D printing. ACM Transactions on Graphics
(TOG) 41, 6 (2022), 1–15.
[ZGH*16] Zhao H., Gu F., Huang Q.-X., Garcia J., Chen Y.,
Tu C., Benes B., Zhang H., Cohen-Or D., Chen B.: Connected fermat spirals for layered fabrication. ACM Transactions
on Graphics (TOG) 35, 4 (2016), 1–10.
[Zha24] Zhao H.: Libhgp. https://github.com/haisenzhao/libhgp
(2024). Accessed 1 May 2023.
[ZRZ23] Zhang W., Ren J., Zhou J.: Noninterference tool orientations and maximum taper angles of conical cutters in 4-axis
milling of complex channel parts. The International Journal of
Advanced Manufacturing Technology 127 (2023), 1–29.
[ZXZL23] Zhong F., Xu Y., Zhao H., Lu L.: As-continuousas-possible extrusion-based fabrication of surface models. ACM
Transactions on Graphics 42, 3 (2023), 1–16.
[ZZX*18] Zhao H., Zhang H., Xin S., Deng Y., Tu C., Wang
W., Cohen-Or D., Chen B.: DSCarver: Decompose-and-spiralcarve for subtractive manufacturing. ACM Transactions on
Graphics (TOG) 37, 4 (2018), 1–14.
Supporting Information
Additional supporting information may be found online in the Supporting Information section at the end of the article.
Supplemental Movie 1

[Wor23] Works S. M.: Fusion 360. https://www.nyccnc.com/
simultaneous-4th-axis/ (2023). Accessed 2 July 2023.

Supporting Information

© 2024 Eurographics - The European Association for Computer Graphics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

14678659, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cgf.15204 by zhenmin zhang - Shandong University Library , Wiley Online Library on [10/10/2024]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Z. Zhang et al. / Continuous Toolpath Optimization for Simultaneous Four-Axis Subtractive Manufacturing

